.. _sec_1722_1_aem:

1722.1 Descriptors
==================

The XMOS AVB reference design provides an AVDECC Entity Model (AEM) consisting of descriptors to describe the internal components 
of the Entity. For a complete overview of AEM, see section 7 of the 1722.1 specification.

An AEM descriptor is a fixed field structure followed by variable length data which describes an object in the AEM
Entity model. The maximum length of a descriptor is 508 octets.

All descriptors share two common fields which are used to uniquely identify a descriptor by a type and an index.
AEM defines a number of descriptors for specific parts of the Entity model. The descriptor types that XMOS currently provide in the 
reference design are listed in the table below. 

Editing descriptors
-------------------

The descriptors are declared in the a header configuration file named
``aem_descriptors.h.in`` within the ``src/`` directory of the application.
The XMOS Reference column in the table refers to the array names of the descriptors in this file. 

This file is post-processed by a script in the build stage to expand strings to 64 octet padded with zeros.

.. list-table::
 :header-rows: 1
 :widths: 11 20 15

 * - Name
   - Description
   - XMOS Reference
 * - ENTITY
   - This is the top level descriptor defining the Entity.
   - ``desc_entity``
 * - CONFIGURATION
   - This is the descriptor defining a configuration of the Entity.
   - ``desc_configuration_0``
 * - AUDIO_UNIT
   - This is the descriptor defining an audio unit.
   - ``desc_audio_unit_0``
 * - STREAM_INPUT
   - This is the descriptor defining an input stream to the Entity.
   - ``desc_stream_input_0``
 * - STREAM_OUTPUT
   - This is the descriptor defining an output stream from the Entity.
   - ``desc_stream_output_0``
 * - JACK_INPUT
   - This is the descriptor defining an input jack on the Entity.
   - ``desc_jack_input_0``
 * - JACK_OUTPUT
   - This is the descriptor defining an output jack on the Entity.
   - ``desc_jack_output_0``
 * - AVB_INTERFACE
   - This is the descriptor defining an AVB interface.
   - ``desc_avb_interface_0``
 * - CLOCK_SOURCE
   - This is the descriptor describing a clock source.
   - ``desc_clock_source_0..1``
 * - LOCALE
   - This is the descriptor defining a locale.
   - ``desc_locale_0``
 * - STRINGS
   - This is the descriptor defining localized strings.
   - ``desc_strings_0``
 * - STREAM_PORT_INPUT
   - This is the descriptor defining an input stream port on a unit.
   - ``desc_stream_port_input_0``
 * - STREAM_PORT_OUTPUT
   - This is the descriptor defining an output stream port on a unit.
   - ``desc_stream_port_output_0``
 * - EXTERNAL_PORT_INPUT
   - This is the descriptor defining an input external port on a unit.
   - ``desc_external_input_port_0``
 * - EXTERNAL_PORT_OUTPUT
   - This is the descriptor defining an output external port on a unit.
   - ``desc_external_output_port_0``
 * - AUDIO_CLUSTER
   - This is the descriptor defining a cluster of channels within an audio stream.
   - ``desc_audio_cluster_0..N``
 * - AUDIO_MAP
   - This is the descriptor defining the mapping between the channels of an audio stream and the channels of the audio port.
   - ``desc_audio_map_0..N``
 * - CLOCK_DOMAIN
   - This is the descriptor describing a clock domain.
   - ``desc_clock_domain_0``


Adding and removing descriptors
-------------------------------

Descriptors are indexed by a descriptor list named ``aem_descriptor_list`` in the ``aem_descriptors.h.in`` file. 

The format for this list is as follows:

+---------------------------------+
| Descriptor type                 |
+---------------------------------+
|Number of descriptors of type (N)|
+---------------------------------+
| Size of descriptor 0 (bytes)    |
+---------------------------------+
| Address of descriptor 0         |
+---------------------------------+
|``...``                          |
+---------------------------------+
| Size of descriptor N (bytes)    |
+---------------------------------+
| Address of descriptor N         |
+---------------------------------+

For example:

``AEM_ENTITY_TYPE``, ``1``, ``sizeof(desc_entity)``, ``(unsigned)desc_entity``